Making a Request, Part 2

(In an OKDHS office, Margie, a supervisor, is speaking privately with her employee, Jane.)

Margie: I wanted to let you know that I spoke with Elaine at the Office for Civil Rights, and she believes you may have a case for having an ADA accommodation regarding your migraines.

Jane: Really? That's good news.

Margie: Yes, and I want to apologize, Jane. I didn't recognize that your condition could be considered an ADA issue. Elaine gave me some good information on the subject, and I've been reading up on it, as well. For now, I need to let you know that, as an employee, if you believe you have a qualifying disability under the ADA, you have the right to request a reasonable accommodation at work. For the next step, I will email you a copy of the Request for Reasonable Accommodation form. You will need to print the form, fill it out, and return it to me along with any additional documentation it specifies. I will give it to our division director, deputy director, or their designee, who will sign the form and submit it to the OCR.

Jane: I saw the form online. Can I just fill it out and send it to the OCR myself?

Margie: You can, however it's preferred you submit it to your supervisor so we can alert leadership to ensure we are all aware of your request. We need to be as expeditious as possible to process your request, so this helps keep everyone in the loop.

Jane: Okay, I will give it to you.

Margie: After the OCR reviews your request, they will notify you, me, my reviewing supervisor, Brent, and leadership whether they have determined that you have a qualifying disability under the ADA or not. If they determine your condition qualifies for an ADA accommodation, we will meet to discuss reasonable accommodation options. These are options that are available to accommodate your condition that will not cause an undue hardship on the agency. Once we come to an agreed upon accommodation, then we will implement it. If any required medical documentation is incomplete or unclear, the OCR may contact you
to ask for additional information.

Jane: Okay.

Margie: I also want you to be aware that you are not required to follow through in submitting this form. However, to be granted an ADA accommodation, you are required to submit this form to the OCR and be approved.

Jane: I understand. I'll do that today.

Margie: Great. And, again, I apologize for not recognizing your situation sooner. If you need any help from me in this process, please let me know.

Jane: I understand. Thank you, Margie.